[Music]
welcome to the session on said
sed
also called as said is a language for
processing text streams
said is actually a programming language
because you could write set scripts
and have loops
however
often said is used on the command line
as a set of commands to process the
inputs text set is an abbreviation of
the phrase stream editor so it is meant
to process the incoming input text as
set of lines
using commands that you are already been
familiar
while going through the ed or x editor
by learning the va editor as part of
this course
and said is also part of the music
standard
you could also instruct said to stick to
the posix standard features so that the
scripts are
compatible with
other systems
as you would guess gnu offers extended
features for the set command
and set command has come
before the awk command
so
there are things that you could do with
said which you could also do with awk
and perhaps a lot more of programming
aspects
but the simplicity of said
and the variety of
text processing commands that are
available
make it a very convenient language to do
a one line
preprocessor for text processing
the execution model of said
looks at the inc
input stream as a set of lines
and each light is a sequence of
characters
there are two buffers that are
maintained one for the
active pattern space and one for the
auxiliary hold space
so the matched patterns
will then be found in the whole space
if you have used parenthesis
and the active pattern space will
contain the line that has been read
and the script will contain a set of
commands separated by semicolons if you
wish
and
each execution cycle is performed on
every line that has been loaded into the
pattern space
and during the cycle of execution the
statements in the script are executed in
the same sequence
for all those
commands
where the address pattern matches
what is for the currently held line in
the pattern space
and if it does then the action specified
will be executed using the options that
are specified after the action
the action is given by a single letter
and these letters are same as what you
have learnt
in the add editor or x editor
so here is the usage of the set command
using the minus e option
and giving the command in single quotes
on the command line you could process
all the lines of the input text
in just one line
and the output will be written to the
standard output so you could pipe it to
another command which you may want to
use for further processing
you could also place all the commands of
a cd
in a file and give the option minus f to
process
these commands
read from the file
typical statement
would look like this
at the beginning there is an optional
label
and then there is an address pattern
the address pattern can have the numbers
regular expressions or arrange
it could also contain the ampersand
symbol to indicate a negation of the
address
and then there is a single letter for
the action that has to be taken
and then there are options which are
specified as per the action
and the statement can end with a
semicolon in the end
you could then group many such
statements using the braces
now the address space
specification can be given in many ways
you could select the lines by numbers
for example if you put 5 it means the
5th line alone will be chosen for
the rest of the processing
if you put a dollar it means the last
line
and if you have percentage symbol it
means all the lines will be matched
and if you
give a tilde
then it means that
every third line starting from the first
line is going to be processed if you
have given 1 tilde 3.
you can also select the lines by using
text matching so you could use regular
expression to do that
so all those lines which contain the
regular expression match
would be then chosen for the execution
you could also provide a range of
addresses by giving two parts separated
by a comma
so you could separate two regular
expressions by a comma
so from the line of the first occurrence
of the first regular expression
until
the line where the first occurrence of
the second regular expression will be
chosen for the commands where you have
got two regular expressions separated by
a comma
if you have separated a regular
expression with a plus symbol it means
that the action has to be taken on the
next four lines starting from the line
where the first matching of the regulus
expression has taken place
if you have a tilde
as given here it means that
from the line where the regular
expression has matched
the next line which is a multiple of 2
will be chosen for execution
if you give the numbers just separated
by commas it means that you won't like
to execute from the fifth line to the
15th line as an example here
and you could also give it as a number
comma regular expression so that from
the fifth line till the first occurrence
of the regular expression will be chosen
as the lines valid for the execution of
the command that you have that you have
provided
the single letter commands
or actions are listed here p for print
d for delete
s for substitute
so the options that have to be given
after substitute are
the same as what you have learnt in the
va editor session
equal to is to print the line number
remember it will also print a new line
character after that
hash is a comment so you could use it to
include some documentation as a part of
your scripts i is for
inserting the line which is above the
correct position a is for appending a
line below the current position
and c is to change the line which is
replacing the current line
you could also have some programming
programmatical aspects of said editor
if you specify b
it means that you are going to branch
from that line to the line which
contains the label
the label can be specified in a line
above or below
from where the branching has taken place
the label itself is specified using a
colon
capital n
is a multi-line
command where
it would read this next line
into the buffer queue is to exit
the set
without processing any more lines of
input or any more commands
you could also do branching
conditionally
whether or not a substitution has taken
place successfully
small t would
work for branching when the substitution
was successful capital t would be when
it is not successful and you could write
whatever is in the pattern space
to a file if you wish using the w
command
and you could also swap the contents of
the pattern space and hold space using
the x command
so this provides quite a few
possibilities for programmatical
approach including recursion
if you are interested in processing the
input
for textual operations
you could combine a cd along with the
bash commands
because you could always use the said
inside the shell script you could also
have a multi-line
command using the here doc feature in
the shell scripts and you could also
combine said
commands on the command line
using the pipe symbol
remember that said is part of the linux
operating system so it is available
everywhere
in linux or unix like operating systems
and it is meant for text processing and
it is very fast in execution
so
consider using said to pre-process the
input
for further processing by other scripts
or commands that you are creating as
part of your work welcome to the
demonstration session of stream editor
in this session we would look at stream
editor with typical usages which allow
for the output stream from other
commands to be processed by the stream
editor so that we could use it between
the pipes
to process input stream in a way that is
suitable for other commands that would
take the processed output
as their input in this session we will
use typical commands of stream editor
which help us in
cleaning up or
processing the incoming stream so that
it is prepared ready
for another command or shell script
for further processing we have a sample
text file which we would use to
illustrate the various commands of
stream editor so let me show you what is
there in that sample file
so there are 15 lines
and each line would have some sample
text
i have chosen the text to be slightly
useful for you when you try to read that
but nevertheless we will treat that as
any random
set of
text lines that we would like to process
so the most simple usage of stream
editor is actually to do nothing because
the default action of stream editor is
to print the line that is being sent to
it
and let us look at that command here
so if you are giving a script that can
be on the command line or in a file so
initially we would look at the command
line usage of stream editor
and minus e
would tell that there is a script that
is coming on the command line and i have
enclosed
the two quotation symbols without
anything in between which means i am
giving
no instructions
and this has to be processed on the file
called sample.txt
so what would happen is the entire text
file is reproduced on the screen
which means that the default action of
stream editor is
to read every line
and do whatever processing that is asked
if there is nothing that is asked then
by default it should just print it out
so that is what has been done
you could
start
exploring the features of
a stream editor
and here is one such feature
where if you
add minus n it means that the default
action of printing should not be
performed
so what do we expect when we run this
command you see that nothing happens
which means that there is no action that
is specified within the
codes for the script the default action
of printing has been suppressed with the
minus n option so this command doesn't
give anything
now these two extremes
will tell us that stream editor
can be told to print only those lines
that match a particular pattern
with which we would be doing some
commands
and what to do with the remaining lines
whether to print them or not so that way
we can decide what part of the
input stream do we want to be sent onto
the screen or
to the pipe if we were to use a cd in
combination with other commands on the
command line
so here is one
usage where we would like to print the
lines
and equal to means that
you are telling the stream editor to
print the line number
and here you can see that there is a
line number that is printed
and then there is a new line character
after that the first line has been
printed same way the second line and
then the second line
okay and then number three and then the
third line number five and then the
fifth line and so on so the equal to
symbol prints the line number and then a
new line character followed by
the line that is read from the input
string this may be useful for some
source codes if you want to send it to a
printer for example you can use the
stream editor to pick a particular line
or particular range of lines from the
input stream
here we have an example
of suppressing all other lines except
the one which has been specified in the
command
and the command is 5b
the 5 refers to the address that means
the line number on which the command has
to be executed and the action
is b which means to print so
what
this line would say is to print the
fifth line
and this says don't print anything else
by default so which means that the
output of this is to print the fifth
line which you can see l5 and then the
rest of it as per the output of the
sample text file now let us see if i
skip the minus n option what would
happen
you would see that all other lines would
also be printed but the fifth line has
been printed twice
because the default action is to print
and then the action i am specifically
telling is also to print
so you have to use the minus n option
whenever you are going to use filtering
action
so that you do not want the
other lines which are not indicated to
be matched by the address space that we
are giving here in which case it is the
fifth line is the address space so if
you do not want anything to be done on
other lines then you have to use minus n
option so we repeat the previous command
of printing the fifth line using single
quotes
single quotes would do the same action
as double quotes except that there are
some special characters such as the
exclamation mark or the dollar symbol
which should be interpreted by the shell
if you want to escape the interpretation
by the shell and pass on characters
directly to the sed command then single
quotes are useful
so here for example
if i put a an exclamation mark it means
that i am going to print only those
lines which do not match the address
five which means every line except the
fifth line and you can see here that
after the fourth line it is the sixth
line that has been printed so you can
skip some lines by using the address and
then an exclamation mark to negate that
particular address some more such
examples
so a dollar would mean the last line
okay and accept the last line
then
dollar bank would give you that now what
happens if i happen to
use single quotes you can see that
it would then be
interpreted by the shell and the
variable p will be substituted there and
then there is a problem because dollar p
there is no variable by name
p
so you can see echo dot p there is
nothing and therefore we have passed on
a null to the script and therefore
nothing has come out of the screen let
us see how to give an address range for
action
so let us say 5 to 8 p
so i am asking the lines from the fifth
one to the eighth one including both of
these two to be printed
and if i want to combine another command
here i could do that as follows
so equal to is one action which means
print the line number
and from the address space 5 to 8
print the line also so it means that for
the 1st to 4th and then 9th onwards
only the line number has been printed
but from the 5th to 8th the line itself
has been printed
now sometimes we may want
only this part of the text to come so
that the remaining lines where the line
is not being printed the line number
also should not come so that could be
achieved in this manner
so the address range is given for which
a set of actions can be specified
okay and you see that
this would give you what you wanted
namely for the address range five to
eight two actions are specified one is
to print the line number the second is
to print the line also now you could do
things that are not very easy in head
and tail commands namely to hop every
nth line
and print the remaining ones
so i would go from
the first line and then the tilde tells
sed that the number which follows it
should be the step so every second line
i would like to print
from the file sample.txt
so you could see that every odd line has
been printed you could change the
hopping from two to three so every
every fourth line has been printed
you could also give a negation here
and you would see that the remaining
lines would then be printed so you could
choose to print or not
every nth line as a hopping
sometimes this is useful in skipping
some of the lines from input stream
which contains numbers so you have a
spreadsheet
of let us say a million numbers and you
want to sample every second or every
third line for further processing so you
could use this kind of a command
for such filtering the address can also
be given using a regular expression
so here
what i do is i give
a
phrase
and an action
so the action is to print the phrases
microsoft so every line that contains a
particular word will be printed
the regular expression is honored with
the spaces also in between
so you could also say that every line
which contains the phrase in place of
should be printed
and you could also ask the negation of
it using the
exclamation mark so those lines which do
not contain
the phrase in place of will be printed
here
then you could also do an action where
you could specify how many lines you
want to print after the matching line
has been shown so here i am showing the
line that is matching the phrase adobe
and let us say i want to give a range
and say that two lines after the line
matching adobe have to be printed so you
could see that the sixth line matches
adobe and then after the two more lines
have been printed now for the purpose of
filtering lines
one of the actions that you could do is
to actually delete
so you can delete a particular line and
then
send it on to the screen or the standard
out for further processing by other
commands
so let us try that out
so i would say
5 d
so what would happen is that the fifth
line has been deleted
you can see that the
l4 after that l6 is coming up so fifth
line
has been deleted and then the default
action of printing has been maintained
because we are not
specifying the minus n option
you could specify a range also
so from the fifth to eighth lines is
deleted here so you could see that after
the fourth it's the ninth line that is
coming up
you could also say i do not want the
first line
or
you could say i do not want the last
line so the last line is the 15th one so
up to 14th we are printing
and the
case of deleting the first length the
second onwards will be printed what
happens when we give a range in this
manner
from 1 to dollar b
so you would see that then from the
first to the last line delete it so
naturally nothing will be shown on the
screen
you could also say that
using a
regular expression so
all those
lines which mention microsoft should be
deleted
so you could do that and you will see
the remaining lines are shown on the
screen so apart from printing a
particular set of lines
by either numbering
the address space or by using pattern
matching or deleting some of the lines
from printing
you could also do one action that is
very popular using the stream editor
namely to substitute a particular phrase
with another phrase
so let us explore that because it is the
most popular usage of set command
so consider this command where we are
asking
without an address space here so if you
see s is a command so before the command
you are supposed to see an address space
and i am not specifying which means that
it is applicable for every line and the
thing that is coming after that is all
whatever is coming after s is all
options for the particular command so s
is a search and replace so the options
are two
the first part is a regular expression
to find out what you are going to search
and match and the next second part is to
replace and the g means that you must
replace it for any number of occurrences
on the line so wherever the small case
microsoft is appearing it will be
replaced with capital letters and you
could see that it has happened here on
line number
three onwards
up to line number eight
you could also ask this kind of a
replacement on a specific line so on the
first line you have linux so you would
like that let us say to be replaced so
on the first line
substitute
the small case
linux with capital case linux
and you will see that the entire text
stream is being sent except that there
is a change that has happened on the
first line the word linux has become in
capital letters
this is one way by which said editor is
used in a
common manner because you are actually
processing
a specific transformation of the text
before it is sent onto the screen
let us say i do not want to use the
phrase in place of
and i want to use a phrase like
in liu of okay
and we would like it to be
in an address space from first line to
the last line so you would see that all
the 15 lines have been printed but the
phrase in place of is now
replaced as in lieu of so you could see
that some of the parts of the line can
be modified and all the lines can then
be also
passed over to the standard output by
set command
and what we are doing here is search and
replace one phrase with another phrase
and this is a very common usage of set
editor now let us say
we would like to print these lines
without the l followed by the
digit after that in the beginning of the
line so i want to remove the first
couple of characters
okay so this can also be achieved by
using the
regular expression
engine the extended set would be used
because the
character set for alpha numeric matching
can be used for the beginning of the
text
so let us try that out
so minus capital e indicates that you
are going to use the extended regular
expression engine so that the character
set
with the colons on either ends
could be used
and what i am trying to do here is for
an address range let us say from three
to six lines i am going to
substitute in the beginning of the line
a capital l
followed by any digit
multiple times and then a space
and i am going to remove it so i am
giving null there
and this is occurring on the file called
sample.txt
so
from the third line to the sixth line
perform a command which is
search and replace
and what to search for
at the beginning of the line
a capital l should be followed by
a digit which can occur multiple times
followed by a space
and that has to be
replaced with null
okay and
you can then see what does it do you can
see that the line number 3 to 6
have been trimmed
in the beginning where l3 up to l6 have
been cut off
okay so this is an illustration of
modifying the incoming stream using the
extended regular expression engine if
you want this to
be applicable for all the lines you
simply remove the address range so by
default it will be for every line
and you see that for all the lines the
initial part of the line with capital l
followed by the line number have been
removed while in the posix version of
sed the address range is restrictive
in the gnu extended
feature set the address range can be
such that the second part can also be
a regular expression so let us try that
out
so what are we doing here
so here we are saying that the
er e engine has to be used
and the script is coming on the command
line
and this has to be affected from the
third line until a line in which
the phrase symbolic is occurring
and the action that has to be taken is
to substitute
and what has to be substituted at the
beginning of the line a capital l has to
come after that a digit can come
and let us say i would also want
multiple such digits to come and the
space and that has to be removed
so you could see that what's happening
is from the 3 line three
until the last line here ninth line
which contains the word symbolic
what we are doing is removing the
initial portion of the line which
contains capital l followed by number
okay so you could see that the address
range is now specified where
the first part is a number third line
specifically the second part is a
pattern which says whichever line after
the third one which contains the phrase
symbolic can be used
now you could also combine this feature
of stepping with the extended regular
expression matching and replacing
so what we do here
is
from the first line every third line
we would
perform the substitution
whatever we mentioned just now
so you see that the first line onwards
okay every third every fourth line
because three are being skipped
okay so
stepping every
fourth line we are seeing that the
initial part of the line has been
trimmed away
you could do that with every
second line
so you would see that
every odd number line
has been trimmed of the initial portion
of the text
how it is mentioned here
and you could combine this with the
negation of the address range also
where the
opposite is done where the odd number
lines are left as it is but the even
number lines have been trimmed in the
beginning to remove the capital l
followed by a number
so you could see that a fairly
complicated action is performed here
where
from the first line onwards
every second line
we would like to perform some action
and that action is to substitute
the initial portion of l followed by
digit with nothing and the bank says
that
such lines that is from the first every
second have to be skipped so from the
second onwards every second line will be
acted upon and that's what we are seeing
here as every even line number is
actually processed to remove the initial
couple of characters of the line in
the gnu extended feature set the
address range can be such that both the
parts the starting and the ending can
also be regular expressions so let us
try that out here
so the starting part i would say is a
phrase text should appear the ending
part should be
a line that has video
and what should i do in that i should do
the action which i have mentioned namely
to remove the text
in between so capital l
so from the line that contains the word
text to the line that contains the word
video
remove the initial portion of the line
so you could see that
the first line on which text word
appears is the second one
and the last line where the video word
is appearing is the 12th one and for
those lines the action that was
performed was to substitute the initial
couple of characters to remove l
followed by the digit and the space that
follows the number
so you could see that this is a fairly
intricate action where some lines are
being skipped some lines are being
processed and again some other lines are
skipped
so if you have a text file in which some
comments are there and then some
specific
fields are there which have to be
modified
you could actually use this kind of a
address range to ensure that you do not
have to worry about the line numbers but
only by the occurrence of those
particular
text strings
in the
file to decide from which line to which
line you would like to act on now there
are some more actions that are possible
apart from
printing deleting
and substitution
you also have the possibilities to
append or insert text so let us take the
example where we would like to insert a
header
add a footer to the lines of text so
what are the lines of the text so you
could see that there are 15 lines so at
the first line at that last line we
would like to insert some header and
footer this can be achieved using the
echo command and cad command in
combination
however we would like to do it with a cd
so that we can understand where actually
the
insertion of text can take place
so the address where
insertion has to happen is on line
number one
and i means that start inserting and
what do we want to insert
let us say a phrase which looks like a
header there and i close the code
okay
and then
so what does it do it prints the header
inserts it at the first line
okay
and i can actually use multiple scripts
on the same command line i can print the
header as well as footer one by one
so i would have minus e once more coming
up
and the dollar says the last line
and again append so append means after
the last line and what do i want to
append i can append saying this is
footer
okay so now you see that this command
shows you how to add a line in front of
the first one and after the last one so
i means insert
before the first line a means append
after the last line and whatever you
want to insert
before the first line is given here
and whatever you want to append after
the last line is given here
okay
now you could also do this at any line
number
which is also something that is quite
powerful
fourth line
is the eighth line
so you could see that i have split the
now text into three parts before the
fourth line i have put up a header line
and after the eighth line i have put up
a footer line naturally we can do these
actions of insertion and appending
using any other address range
patterns that we have seen earlier
so let us say
for every line that
contains the
phrase microsoft
i would like to insert
a warning saying that watch out
okay
every line that contains
in place of
i would like to append a line saying
alternative okay
so look at it what we are doing
for every line that contains the phrase
microsoft i am inserting a line before
it which says watch out
and for every line that contains in
place of i am actually appending a line
alternative so you will see that many
many such lines will be inserted because
these two phrases are occurring many
times
and you could see here
that in place of has come here and
therefore immediately there's an
appending of the line alternative coming
after that
and here there is a microsoft that is
appearing so in front of it you have got
watch out
and in place of it has come here so
therefore alternative has come after
that so you can actually combine
the insertion or appending with the
address space
possibilities that we have to achieve
any kind of breakage of the input stream
as you like for example i would like to
print
a break after every fifth line
using said we could do that here quite
nicely so you can see that after every
five lines there is a break that we have
inserted because the tilde operator
tells that skip five lines and then
perform the action and the action is to
insert the line and then we have
inserted the
line it says break
at the sixth line because after the
first line it will be the sixth line so
before the first line before the sixth
line before the eleventh line we are
printing a break now apart from
inserting and appending you also have an
ability to
change a line
that is to replace an entire line with
something else
let us say look at this text it contains
microsoft as one of the words that is
listed so let us say i do not want to
display that on my screen so in every
line which contains that particular word
i would like to change it to something
else so let us try that out here
so what are we doing here
so
every line which matches the pattern
microsoft c command is to be executed c
is basically to change
change the line to what is being
provided on the command as an option
here so that particular text which is
written here
is the
new line that has to be replaced with
and
if the line doesn't match the pattern
microsoft then the line will be printed
as it is so you could see that all those
lines
which contained the word microsoft have
been replaced with the line which says
sensor
okay so you could actually achieve the
replacement of lines by changing it
using the c command also now naturally
the c command can also be used using
address ranges so for example i could
see like this
from the
first line onwards
every
third line i would like to sensor
and you could see that first line
onwards every third line has been
sensored and we are replacing the line
with the text that we are providing here
in the command now you have seen that we
are providing the
script in the command line itself we
could do that in a file also so let us
go ahead and edit a file that contains
the
acd script
so here is an example
script
where we are mentioning the
interpreter which is a cd
and
we are doing certain actions what we are
doing multiple actions so
on the first line if the line number
matches 1 then insert a header if the
line number matches the last one then
append a footer
and then
from the first line onwards to the fifth
line substitute the occurrence of a
phrase in place of with in lieu of
and then on the sixth line insert a line
that is before the sixth line insert a
line which says
a phrase
and then from the sixth line onwards
till the last line
if you have in place of
then remove the text from that until the
end of the line
so you can see that we have got about
five different commands that are being
included in this particular script and
we can execute this script on the
sample.txt file so that for every line
all these five commands
will be looked at and whichever command
is applicable based upon the address
range that is specified at the beginning
of the line that particular action will
be performed
so let us go ahead and try this out so
what we are doing here is saying that
the scd will use the script coming from
a file rather than on the
command line and it should execute on a
file containing the input stream namely
sample.txt so what follows after minus f
is interpreted as the file that contains
the set commands
so now you can see that the actions that
we mentioned are here so let me just
output the
set commands also here so the first line
the header has been inserted before it
so you could see that it has occurred
here
and then the last line
a footer line has been appended so you
could see that after after the 15th line
you have got the footer appended
and then from the first to the fifth
lines the phrase in place of is replaced
with in lieu of
so you could see here
it's all in lieu of it's not in place of
and from the sixth onwards what has
happened is we have actually replaced
the
text that follows in place of and then
alternative
commands that are listed on the line all
of that has been removed
and before the sixth line a line has
been inserted which is a simpler stuff
here so that has been inserted here so
you could see that a number of actions
can be listed and all those actions will
be performed on all the lines of the
input stream provided the address range
is matching and address edge can be
given with respect to the
digits or by pattern
so you could think of
multiple actions that you could perform
using the set scripts rather than
writing all those commands in the
command line itself
so let us say we would like to
use this
to clean up
the
input file which we used in the awk
session where we had some roll numbers
and the amount of fees paid so here is
an example of the input which we have
used in the occ session where the text
is gobbled up with other information
that we wanted to have namely the roll
number and the fees paid so we would
like to remove those lines which do not
contain the roll number pattern
followed by a
integer which contains a phase so what
we are doing here is
this action says that
all those lines on which a pattern that
looks like a roll number is to be
found
except those lines the
ampersand says that except those lines
which contain the roll number delete
okay which means that only the lines
which contain the roll number pattern
only should be printed okay now that
line the next action will be followed
the next action is if there are multiple
spaces
remove them and substitute with the
single space so that is done now after
that
what is done is
if you have
anything
after which the number has come
then only the number has to be
kept and remaining space in front of the
numbers could be replaced
so what will be the output of this is
something that you could see here
i am going to use minus capital e option
because the er e has to be used for this
complicated pattern we have used here
extended regular set has to be used
and minus f because we are going to read
the commands from the file and block
example six dot input is the file in
which the text is there
so when we run here you can see that the
output that has come is very clean it
has only the information that we were
seeking and not
the other things that are there in the
file so you could also imagine that
the output of this particular set
command
as listed here is now more ready for
further processing by another script
which doesn't have to worry about the
presence of remaining text so you could
use said to clean up a text
to prepare it for
further processing by another script now
the last command that we would like to
mention is to
join
lines
joining lines requires the set to read
one more line into the buffer
and this is achieved
in a limited number of commands
and let us see how this can be used
to join some lines which fit a
particular pattern
now said commands can be
constructed as loops
and can perform complicated actions so
to illustrate that i will use
a simple task here
the file that we are showing here is
having backslash characters there is one
backslash character within the text but
all others are occurring exactly at the
end of the line the purpose is that we
would like to break the lines using
backslash to ensure that the width of
the line is within a particular limit
but for the processing i would like to
join the lines so that i have the same
output as what i have shown you
in
sample.txt so here some of the lines are
very long but
here i have broken them using backslash
so i would like to join the lines
which are ending with a backslash now
you can see that i have
broken the fifth line into three parts
okay which means that after i join
the second part i should continue to
join with the third part also and when
does it stop only when there is no
backslash at the end of the line so this
can be achieved by using a loop
so the loop is constructed is in this
fashion ah so here you see that every of
these lines will be executed for every
line that is being read into the buffer
and
there is a label colon indicates that
there is a label so that label is
ignored while execution but it is only
used for branching
so the first line what it does is
whenever there is a backslash followed
by the end of the line then it will read
the next line in the
buffer so that it is basically like
joining the
line following the one which is being
processed
the next command what it does is
on the lines which have backslash
if there's a character
new line after the backslash it will be
replaced with null so it is basically to
clean up the backslash character
and what this does is
on those lines which contain backslash
at the end of the line we branched the
first line so when we branch to the
first line we actually again
do the same action namely to join with
the next line so when do we not branch
and go on to the next cycle
is when the line does not contain a
backslash at the end of the line which
means that
a recursive action is performed so one
has to watch out that this recursive
loop could get into an infinite loop if
you do not design these patterns
correctly but in our case we have
already verified and i will now
illustrate how does that work
so you can see that now the joining has
happened quite nicely as expected and
our script has not bothered to replace
the backslash within the text because it
is not occurring immediately before the
end of the line
okay so
here is an example of branching
and labeling of lines so that a loop can
be constructed within the said script
and in that sense said is a fairly well
developed programming language but
since it operates only on the text
scripts it may not be a good idea for
you to play around with it
because some of the times if you don't
watch out you may end up in internet
look but luckily there is a debug option
available
so if you wish to enable that
then what happens is that for every line
that is being processed
sed will tell you what was the line that
was read
what was the pattern that was used what
are the comments that are executed and
when does the cycle get over
okay